of us and you know eliminate who they want to get over here and even work with and I was never in the get over here and work with group so that when you went to A&M under Coach Bryant if you had any kind of an athletic scholarship you were out for football if you were a track man if you were a golfer you were out for football Bobby Nichols who became PGA champion
He had been a football player under Coach Ryan up in Kentucky, and he brought him down on a golf scholarship.
So I was in the mullet patrol, you know.
In fact, don't even write anything about me being an athlete because it's a missed note.
Carolyn, sit down.
We're telling some great tales.
Okay.
Describe Colonel Indy as a person, as a coach.
He was pretty aloof.
I mean, he had...
He'd talk to you when he was ready to and he'd stand out there and walk around practice and watch everything.
You know, there was not a lot of direct coaching on his part.
Okay.
He was a, you didn't play any jokes with him.
Oh, no.
He was all busy.
Describe him physically.
We don't know much about him.
He just, you know, slight little guy.
Five?
I don't know.
I mean, he seemed big as a house, you know, to me at that time.
Get out the door.
uh did did you all have respect for colonel and of course he was a legend now putman you know was the uh he was really more the hands-on coach he and when you had a lot of those things he drew they had these old long maroon chevrolet we used to call them the uh the gooses and they had a lot of them were white with maroon things they had one or two that were just terrible pieces of crap
Is that what y'all rode into the track meets?
Yeah.
Sometime you'd go to, you know, like the cross-country team would go and those.
It was... Describe a typical track team trip.
Well, my favorite recollection, the one we used to laugh about, Bones was the athletic director.
Bones Irwin, you remember him?
Barlow Irwin.
Yeah.
he would give you like two dollars and fifty cents and tell you one of the receipts and the change back that was your real money well even then two dollars and fifty cents was not a lot of money and and you know we didn't stay anywhere you know you finished and loaded up and drove to go back so they didn't have to pay for a hotel or motel range
In Port Arthur, we had our own buses.
We traveled first class, and I ask you, and you go to A&M, and it was pretty ratty.
All right, now the football team, by comparison.
Oh, that was, you know, they were first class by comparison.
But the football team was way down on the totem pole compared to other schools.
But under Bryant, all the other sports got much less attention, didn't they?
Sure.
I mean, that's what I said.
Everyone was out for football.
You know, it was because he understood.
I mean, that's why the football team played four home games and everything else on the road.
We played Rice every year in Houston and LSU every year in Baton Rouge, and it was a money thing.
That's why when I became active in the former students and the Aggie Club, which became the 12th man,
You know, the first thing that when Biebs came down there, you know, he said, well, what do you think we ought to do?
I said, you know, we've got to expand that stadium because nobody's going to play us home and home until, you know, we got out of that 40,000-seat cracker box.
And we had to stretch to get that upper deck on the other side.
And I tell people, Emery Ballard, by expanding that stadium,
And getting that program turned around, they ought to erect a statue to him down there.
Now, Jackie Sherrill came in and he took it to the next level and gets a lot of credit.
And people say, well, you know, Reigns, you've devoted too much time and attention to athletics.
And I said, let me show you a little chart.
And I put this together.
I used to make this argument.
I said, here is.
the performance of your football team and the giving to the university.
And it follows the same thing at every major university.
And when the University of California, they finally figured that out.
Stanford has figured it out.
And I'm not saying it's right, wrong, or indifferent.
I'm just a weatherman.
You know, there is a correlation between these two.
And a big part of A&M, and I think the thing that, and the reason athletics brings everyone together is one common denominator.
And the larger the school gets, you know, the core used to be the common experience.
And the common experience that we have, we have a lot of things going for us, but I still think athletics is important as a unifier.
Cities have it.
One of the arguments I made when, hush,
when we built the stadiums down here because cities need, you know, from the times of the Coliseum in Rome and the games of bringing, give them a circus.
That freshman year, describe a typical class day routine for you.
What time did you get up?
Well, you know, you had Reveille.
Did you guys?
Sure you had Reveille.
You know, there's a lot.
Whose room did you take care of?
Well, when I was over in the Corps, you know, whoever they assigned you to, and I was, come here.
I'm sorry, I've got a dog that is a puppy that is acting upset.
Okay, sit.
Okay.
There was, in our outfit, we had certain sand duties that we did, and, you know, all those things rotated around, and we lived right down by the crapper, and my job was to get in and, you know, tidy up the crappers every morning.
Which, you know, I'd much rather do that than have some guy's room to take care of.
Over in the dining hall, did your outfit have cush questions?
Oh, yeah.
You know, I mean, you didn't eat until everyone left the table.
That was another thing.
I was losing weight like crazy.
And they said, boy, you know, you need to eat.
And by the time, you know, everybody left, you got about that long to eat.
What were some of your favorite Cush questions you remember?
Oh, well, campusology was, you know, there were all kinds of things you had to recite and remember and recitations and how many steps led to this and, you know, what was the horse's name and, you know, all kinds of just bullshit that at night you're studying that so you can eat as opposed to studying freshman English or,
Where did you and your buddies go when you had any unscheduled time during the day?
What did y'all do?
We went to the MSC in the spring, I mean in the summer,
In May and September, for sure, the MSC, because it was the only air-conditioned building on campus.
But during the rest of the time, what did you do if you had two hours free?
If I had two hours free, the MSC was literally the living room of the campus.
Everyone went over there.
That's where I met J. Wayne Stark, and he had a big influence on my life.
How so?
Well, Stark was, Stark ran the only cultural oasis in a wasteland down there.
And from the performing arts to the visual arts, there's always something going on over there.
And there was some kind of an exhibit.
And you could go down and bowl a game or get a good ping pong game going with someone or have a great bowl session.
Did he ever give you a lecture on that green couch about doing your best?
Oh, I don't think anyone ever worked in any of that stuff.
And Stark and I got to be really close.
And afterwards,
When I was down at the University of Houston, I led the Houston delegation back down to Skona.
And I hadn't participated in Skona when I was at A&M, but I did represent the University of Houston.
And thank you, Nana.
How did you and your buddies dress when you went to class?
Fatigues, if we could get away with it.
But you're supposed to be in uniform all the time.
First year or two, did you attend class regularly?
Oh, no.
Where did you?
Well, once I didn't have to go to practice,
I would be on campus for the major quizzes.
I was dating a girl in Austin.
In fact, the state rep down there, he got me in trouble because he asked my father in Port Arthur how I was doing at the University of Texas.
He said, well, I only have one son.
He said, A&M.
He said, well, I see him in Austin all the time.
Yeah.
I didn't have a car up there, but you could always find somebody that was dating a girl down there.
I mean, there were cars going back and forth to Austin, to Waco, to Huntsville, to Houston.
I mean, going somewhere because there's a certain...
urges that make young men want to be where young women are.
Did you hitchhike ever?
Oh, absolutely.
Describe Aggie hitchhiking.
Well, you go out and hit the lion out there and line up and stick your thumb in.
I hitchhiked all over the country.
I've got a great hitchhiking story.
The summer before I got in A&M when I wasn't at Junction, they had a big strike going to Port Arthur.
They always had strikes.
So my buddy Jack Clark, he went to Rice to play ball up there, but we ran around.
In fact, my mother called me by my last name until her death to distinguish me from Jack Clark.
She referred to us as our two Jacks, and he practices the law and lives not far from here, and we're still close friends.
But Jack Clark and I said, well, we're going to hitchhike to
California and get work out there and so we started hitchhiking and we had a we wound up I take it back it was after I guess it was my sophomore junior year because I had a freshman from Tucumcari New Mexico
Charlie Preston, and we got to Amarillo where my brother was.
My brother lived in Amarillo.
We stayed with him.
So I called Charlie Preston, who lived in Tucumcari.
I said, we're coming that way, going out to California, and we're going to be on Route 66.
He said, hell, I've got to come to Amarillo.
So he came over and picked us up.
We got to Tucumcari.
We met some guys over there that would come back from California, so there's absolutely no jobs out there.
So Clark said, well, hell, he had a guy that, because he had been at Rice, he had a guy named Kahn, K-A-H-N.
He later became a beer distributor in El Paso and then up in Dallas.
And we hitchhiked down to El Paso.
We stayed with him a few days, couldn't get work down there.
So we said, well, you know, we're going to starve to death out here.
We better at least get back home where we can eat.
So we started hitchhiking.
I had my little ditty bag that had a Texas Aggie sticker on it.
And, you know, I mean, you think nothing about it.
We left home with like $5 each in our pocket and what we could get in that ditty bag and our thumb.
And, you know, we were out to see the world.
And we were out at $10, $2 out there, you know, in the great desert.
And some guy comes highballing it through.
And, I mean, he passed us.
He must have been doing 90 miles an hour.
And it took him a mile, I think.
Shut that car down.
When we started running, he started backing.
And we got there, and I think his name was Roy.
Clark still remembers his name.
I think it was Roy Wilkins or something like that.
I've tried several times to find him through all the former student stuff.
We've never been able to run him down.
He gave us a ride, and he said, well, boy, it's as far as I go.
And we were out just still in the middle of nowhere.
And he said, you're not going to get a ride because it's like 9 o'clock at night.
He said, now you come on home with me.
He said, I got a garage apartment.
Y'all can stay out there.
We got in and just fixed some sandwiches, went to bed.
We had a place to sleep and a full belly.
He got us up the next morning about 5 o'clock, and he took us down to a truck terminal where he knew the guy down there, and he said, these are pretty good boys.
They had a rig that was going to Houston.
We traveled on that rig all day, and we got into Houston out of the ship channel at 2 a.m.
Guy dropped us off out there on the old 90 out in the middle of the, out by Channel View, and we started hijacking.
Now we've been traveling a lot.
We're getting foot weary.
We finally got another truck fixed up.
We got into Port Arthur at 530 on the outskirts of Port Arthur, and we walked in.
We got to Clark's house at 7 o'clock, and his mother opened the back door in there.
We stood.
I guess we looked like death warmed over.
She fed us, and I didn't even go home.
I just walked in.
crashed on the couch and she called my mother who came over to get me that afternoon.
I've never been so tired in my life.
Did you ever have a negative experience as an Aggie hitchhiker?
Never.
I had, you know, people would pick you up.
You had that A&M sticker on there and they'd stop and pick you up and you just visited with everyone.
I'd no more get out there on the road.
I used to pick up hitchhikers too.
I don't anymore.
Okay, you're hitchhiking.
You said no negative experiences.
And what were the rules about Aggie hitchhiking?
Well, if you were leaving from the campus, you know, you went down to the line, you got in line, and, you know, just every car came through loaded up on a Friday afternoon.
If most of my hitchhiking was done out of Houston or Austin and you just, you went out there and got on the side of the road.
Where in Houston was the best place to catch you?
Out here on 290, just past Post Oak, what was Post Oak Road that's now 610.
And the old Post Oak, the old Hempstead Highway is a few blocks from here and runs under, runs parallel to the railroad tracks that go down to College Station.
All right, when you went from College Station to Port Arthur or vice versa, what route did you take?
You couldn't get there.
I mean, you had to have somebody.
When I had a car, we came out of Port Arthur on 69 up through Beaumont.
Then you went up to Cleveland and came across from Cleveland down in through Navasota and into College Station.
Was it common when an Aggie rode with another Aggie who had a car?
You shared.
Everybody shared the cost.
Sure.
Gardner LaBeouf and Jack Harthorn and Sammy Meyer, we all went back and forth together a lot.
Although I got to where I didn't like to go with LaBeouf because LaBeouf was crazy and we'd, you know, he'd get a six pack when we left Port Arthur.
Well, we'd be out of beer by the time we got, there was a place up in East Texas
up there somewhere around Cleveland, where out in the middle of nowhere where the county line was, just like the Whiskey Bridge was, you cross this line across, you know, some creek or river, and on the other side, well, all these beer joints.
Well, everybody would get out, you know, relieve themselves, and we'd go in to get more beer.
And LaBeouf would look around, and he'd say,
You know, we can whip anybody's ass that's in here.
And you had all these big old boys that, you know, didn't have anything to do but sit around up there and cut down trees and drink beer.
And that was before you had power saws.
They did all that with a crosscut.
And if you ever spend any time on the end of a crosscut saw, you're either dead or you have one hell of a right hand.
And the thing that you learned to do was always circle them so they couldn't get, so that right was going away from you.
Because if they ever hit you with that right hand, they'd kill you.
If you could ever get them to miss, you could get over the top of it, you know, you were okay.
But God, help you.
How easy was it for a person under age 21 to buy beer then?
Well, you see in Port Arthur, the rules down there,
On the main street of Port Arthur, you went into the Keyhole Club, and they had all the odds up on the wall, and it was open, and there was prostitution upstairs.
So buying beer illegally was the least of the sins that went on there.
Their rules were if you could reach the bar with 20 cents, they gave you a beer.
Beer was 19 cents, and you were expected to leave the penny for the bartender.
Back on the campus.
And, of course, you go to Louisiana and it was legal then, you see.
But you didn't, legal niceties were not closely observed as they are now.
Back on the campus, you got there in the fall of 56.
About how long was it before you went home the first time?
Thanksgiving?
Yeah, Thanksgiving was the first time I went home.
I dated that girl down in Texas, and we went down to Austin and whipped their ass, and she had a car, and I rode home with her.
That was probably one of the highlights of my entire life.
What did you tell your folks about what it was like to be an Aggie?
Well, Mother was very proud of me.
She said, you know, when you were born, we were in a garage apartment in Waco, Texas, and there was the Kendricks family who owned the house.
He was an Aggie.
And they had a son at the same time named Gid, and Gid Kendrick and I played together, and evidently he brainwashed my mother about how great A&M was.
Now my father, on the other hand, who had not attended college,
He had one teacher in Malone, Texas from the time he started school, he graduated.
And she went on to Baylor and became the dean of women there, Dr. Lorena Stretch.
I don't know if you ever ran across her.
She was kind of a legend down in Baylor.
Well, when I was a boy, we always made this pilgrimage to see Dr. Stretch.
But Dad had been working in Waco before he and Mother married when A&M played Waco and they had a big riot.
They never finished the second half of the game.
Well, his sympathies lay with the Baylor Bears.
He always pulled for Baylor.
My brother, who is 12 years older, came back from World War II, he went and graduated from Baylor.
Baylor was my father's school.
And he, you know, wanted me to go anywhere except Texas A&M University, the one school he despised, one school mother really liked.
They both agreed they didn't think Texas was the right place for me because it was a rich kid's school, and we weren't rich.
As you look back on it, did you have some teachers that first semester or first year at A&M that were important to you?
Well, all of them were important because I was, you know, that's when you had all these freshman courses, you know, you had
It seemed like 1,000 people in a biology class and 1,000 people in this, and you had, they, Kutesh and Denton got me in, you know, you had to have so many science credits, and they got me in rocks for jocks, which, you know, they.
Who taught that?
I can't remember, you know.
Was it supposedly an easy course?
Yeah, but they taught you how to lick the rocks and what they tasted like, you could identify them.
And Kutash and Denton had some unique ways of helping you.
But my first, the profs that really had an influence on me,
Scoot ran the business school.
And... Where's his last name?
Scooter Harrison.
No, it's not Scooter Harrison.
Scooter... No, that's a new nickname.
Well, he was before... He was dean of the business school.
We were in Francis Hall.
And... But they had an old alcoholic judge who was a lawyer who taught business law.
They had a three-fingered dozer, and he taught some courses over there.
B.J.
Adams?
Adams was there.
I was trying to think who else was there.
And got taught salesmanship.
And was business your major from the first?
Yeah, I wanted to go to law school.
So that was?
Yeah, and I wanted to get a business degree and eventually go to law school.
That was my dream.
Right.
That and flying airplanes in the Air Force.
I was really more interested in flying airplanes in the Air Force.
I thought I might make that a career.
That first semester, do you remember going to Silver Taps?
Oh, yeah.
You know, you.
Describe what that was.
Well, we got there, and of course, you know, you had campusology and this, that, and the other, and, you know, you knew what it was.
There was a kid, there were two core areas, the new core area and the old core area, and I was over in the new core area when I was in the core.
I mean, it was like the first week or so we were there.
And some kid was driving back, went to sleep in the car, and you know, bam.
Aggies used to die like flies.
The percentage, you know, there's more Aggies now, but the percentage of the student body
because everyone was traveling everywhere, you know, all the time.
Just greater odds.
So they said it's going to be Silver Taps tonight, and they called, you know, the outfit together and said, you know, freshman, this is first Silver Taps, you know, you know, this is a very serious thing, and it's one of our greatest traditions.
You know, I outlined it all, and so it, uh,
The guys just walked down the hall and said, fall out for silver taps.
Well, you know, I thought maybe we marched over, you know, I'd never, we hadn't gotten into the mechanics.
You're used to falling out every one while, catting and lining up and all this noise, and suddenly it's dark, and people are just filing out, and I wrote a poem that night when I got back.
I can remember the first few.
They shuffled along in streams, and the streams became rivers, and the rivers flowed into a silent sea that stood and stared at nothing.
And that was, you know, the impression that I had.
And you and your buddies took it seriously?
Oh, very seriously.
And nobody played any jokes after it was over or anything like that?
Absolutely not.
I mean, that was a, it was a very somber, solemn occasion.
Well, I went back and put pen to paper, which you're running a risk and anything, every light's out.
But I spent most of my life running a risk.
I felt compelled to.
required my impression.
Not that it was great prose, but it was something that I wanted to do.
Another tradition, then, would be bonfire.
Did you, as a fish?
Oh, yeah.
Everybody participated in the bonfire.
When I was there, athletes participated in everything.
I mean, it was— What did you do as a fish?
Well, first thing, you know, you went out to the cutting area, and— Do you remember where it was?
No.
Hell, you just, you know, you got in the back of a truck, and it's hard to tell where you're going looking backwards.
And, you know, you went out to the cutting area, and—
they had these sticks that the first letter began with an F, and which were young saplings.
And, you know, the freshman, you start off, you know, your jobs, they put those on the logs, you get there and, you know, the one, two, three, uh, well,
I never could have enough sense to get next to some guy that was my size.
I always had some guy that couldn't reach the sticks.
So basically, you're toting one side of it.
You got a little guy hopping along besides you getting underfoot.
And then the other things, once they found out, you know, I'd spent all my summers in East Texas.
And I started on a crosscut saw when I was, you know, a little boy.
And I knew how to use an axe and a crosscut.
And there were, you know, everything was done by hand back then.
And so once they discovered that you had a talent for those things, they quickly moved you into another line of work out there.
And, which I enjoy, you know, using a crosscut's rhythm.
You know, you get going if you got a good partner on the other side, you can really make that thing hum.
About how long did y'all work on the bonfire?
Well, if you had afternoon classes off, you know, they, you'd take off and go out and work in the afternoon, and then you'd come back, you know, for chow.
And then how many, but how many days or weeks?
Well, it seemed like bonfire went on forever then, and then it started raining.
It always rained during bonfire, and you were just mucking around out there.
And once you got out of the cutting area and you got everything into the stack area and, you know, you started up, it was, it was, the logistics were easier because if you had an hour off, you know, they'd clean the darms out.
Somebody would be, you know, they'd just, they'd send people through the darms.
You know, if you had a quiz, you know, forget that quiz, man.
We got a bonfire to build.
Now, you went out there riding a truck?
Well, that was when you go to the cutting areas.
That's what I mean.
Yeah.
And you went, you know, there were places where there were pickup points.
Your job was to, you know, get in your combat boots and get in your grubbies and get over there and get at that pickup point and go out.
Did anybody during your years at A&M, did anybody seriously get injured during that?
Oh, yeah.
Sure.
How seriously?
Well, he dropped a tree on one kid, and the trunk didn't hit him, but some major branches did.
Everybody ran over there, and we were cutting him out.
And I was with guys when I said, you know, I'm screaming, wait, you know, everybody's running in here with us.
You know, don't, we're going to decapitate this guy.
You know, get a cross cut in, cut this one.
That's when I got on the cutting.
You know, some upperclassmen said, there is a guy that knows what he's doing.
But it didn't kill him.
It didn't kill him.
He was hurt.
He had, you know, he's just beat all to hell.
And he had, I think, a broken arm or something like that.
Scared him.
I mean, a damn tree falls on you.
I'd have died of fright.
Now, in those days, Bonfire was on the drill field.
Right, behind Duncan Messonk.
What kind of jokes or pranks did you guys play during Bonfire time?
Well, you know, there were, it was kind of a, you know, you've had a lot of discipline, so everybody's lots looser and, you know,
There's more camaraderie between the classes than there were at other times.
Nobody got drunk.
None of us could afford to get drunk back then.
I mean, you drank on a weekend, but there was no, maybe some of them did.
I just didn't see a lot of drinking except on the weekends.
And, you know, you worked hard and then you played hard.
And the bonfire during your years, nobody ever successfully bombed it or?
Well, hell no.
We had some kids were hurt.
Someone drove a car through a checkpoint and hurt some kids.
And there was rumor that that was somebody coming to burn.
But I never separated the fact from the fiction on all that.
I mean, a guy would have to be absolutely out of his mind to try to get in and set that bonfire on fire.
Why is bonfire important to Aggie traditions?
Well, again, it's a shared experience.
It's a coming together of a group of people
You know, I thought about Bonfire watching the rescue effort in New York, because it's that same thing.
People that are not firemen, not cops, just, I want to do something.
Okay, then let's go to your freshman year, go to Aggie football game.
Was that, had you ever been to an Aggie game before?
Well, you know, I told you about coming down to Rice to see how you didn't play Rice, but I hadn't been on campus.
So what, describe a football Saturday for a freshman.
You know, I wanted to watch the football game, and you're, you know, if you're sitting with a court, it's a hard place to watch a football game because you're supposed to be doing something all the time.
And you've got to date if you're lucky.
And I always dated girls.
One of my prerequisites, I couldn't date a girl unless she had her own car because she had to come up and bring her car.
And...
So you've got a date up there that's got a car, and you know you're going to go out and do a little heavy necking.
And I was interested.
The football game first, the girls second, and all the stuff that the Corps was doing was third, and I was constantly getting in trouble.
Fish rains, hump it down there.
Pass those yells back.